In this project, I would like to explore that how people feel tired and the distance people kept to each other during the covid influence the index of life satisfication. For the question I need three variables which is ‘COVID_prevention_distancing’, ‘WELLNESS_malach_pines_burnout_measure_tired’, and ‘WELLNESS_life
_satisfication’ I suggest box plot, violin plot and histogram for these variables, as we have a numerical variable which is ‘WELLNESS_life_satisfication’ and the other two are categorical variables. However, the box plot or violin plot can properly show the relation between the categorical variable and the continuous variable and how the continuous variable is distributed. For histogram, we can easily find if it shows a normal distribution of a continuous variable and the spread of datas.
Will how people feeling tired influence the index of life satisification? I will use ‘hypothesis testing on population mean’ to explore the relation between them. After randomly choosing some datas of them which is distributed by two subgroups of the variable ‘WELLNESS_malach_pines_burnout_measure_tired’. This variables can be distributed into ‘feel tired’ and ‘do not feel tired’ as subgroups. So, I want to know if there’s a significant difference between these two independent datas of the subgroups. Steps of hypothesis test: Set up the hypothesis, H0: miu1 = miu2. H1: miu1 != miu2.  miu1 is the mean of the index of life satisfication for people who feel tired. miu2 is the mean of the index of life satisfication for people who do not feel tired. Use bootstrap sampling to simulate the sampling distribution of sample statistic. Then compare the two boostrap sample means. The possible results I can get: if reject H0, conclude Ha so we have enough evidence to say that miu1 != miu2, which means the variable ‘WELLNESS_malach_pines_burnout_measure_tired’ does affect the index of the life satisfication. If fail to reject H0, cannot conclude Ha so we have no enough evidence to say that miu1 != miu2, which means the variable does not affect the index of the life satisfication. This is relative to our tut05’s Demo II(of Hypothesis Testing of p-values).
What is the range of the variable ‘WELLNESS_life_satisfication’? I can use confidence interval which shows how close the index of life satisfication estimate is to the value of the parameter. I can use bootstrap to estimate sampling distribution by re-sampling from the original sample with replacement. First, generate a bootstrap sample by taking a random sample from the original sample data. Second, calculate the mean of the bootstrap sample datas. Then, repeat many times. The possible results I can get: we have 95% confidence to say that miu of population will fall into the range of [4.0, 7.0]. This we have learned from the lec04, how to use bootstrap to find the confidence interval to estimate the miu of the population.
How tired people feel and the distance they kept during the covid influence the index of life satisfication. I can use Linear Regression, which has two factors(independent variable) which is ‘COVID_prevention_distancing’, and ‘WELLNESS_malach_pines_burnout_measure_tired’ to estimate the index of the life satisfication(dependent variable). Before we use this method, it should be satisfied with four assumptions. First, there should be a linear relationship between the independent variable and the dependent variable. We can plot the observed datas to find if there’s a linearity in the parameters. Second, the residuals(error) should be independent, which means there should be no systematic pattern. Third, the variance of residuals should be constant across the independent variables. Fourth, the normality of erros. The errors should be normally distributed with a mean and variance. If these four assumpions are satisfied, that means we are able to use the linear regression. So, our independent variable is these two factors, and the dependent variable is the index of life satisfication. By using the datas of these variables, we can finally find the estimated equation ‘Y^=β0​+β1X1​+β2X2​+⋯+βpXp’. β0 is the mean response when all predictors are zero. βp is the average change for one unit increase in Xp, when the other predictors are constant. The possible result I can get: if the model is significant, which means I can estimate the y^ by using these datas. If the model is not significant, which means these two factors do not affect the y^. In tut07 we have learned the linear regression, but the simple linear regression which only has one factor.
The final conclusion(the relation between three variables ‘COVID_prevention_distancing’, ‘WELLNESS_malach_pines_burnout_measure_
tired’, and ‘WELLNESS_life_satisfication’), I predict that the distance between people during covid and how tired they feel do affect the index of the life satisfication. As people have to keep distance during the covid, they will have less time to communicate with each other face to face, and the more tired they feel, the less happy they will get, which will result of a decline on the index of life satisfication.
